>> Reporter: A TOUR THROUGH THE
NEW BELGIUM BREWING COMPANY IN
FORT COLLINS, COLORADO, PASSES
THROUGH THE BOTTLING FACILITY
AND BREWHOUSE, BEFORE ENDING AT
THE BAR.
NEW BELGIUM IS ONE THE LARGEST
CRAFT BREWERIES IN THE COUNTRY,
DISTRIBUTING BEER TO ALL 50
STATES.
WHEN YOU BUY ITS BEST KNOWN
BRAND, FAT TIRE BELGIAN STYLE
ALE, THAT "B" ON THE LABEL
DOESN'T STAND FOR BEER, IT'S
STANDS FOR B CORP, A DESIGNATION
GIVEN TO BUSINESSES DEDICATED TO
MORE THAN PROFIT.
>> I THINK WHEN YOU GET TOGETHER
WITH PEOPLE YOU REALIZE YOU HAVE
A LOT OF THE SAME VALUES.
>> Reporter: KATIE WALLACE IS
NEW BELGIUM'S ASSISTANT DIRECTOR
OF SUSTAINABILITY.
>> IF YOU'RE RUNNING A BUSINESS
THAT'S NOT CONSIDERING THE
IMPACT THAT YOU HAVE ON THE
ENVIRONMENT AND SOCIETY, OR THE
IMPACT THAT THOSE THINGS HAVE
UPON YOUR BUSINESS, THEN YOU'RE
NOT OPERATING A BUSINESS THAT'S
REALLY GOING TO BE IN EXISTENCE
IN THE FUTURE.
>> Reporter: NEW BELGIUM IS
PRIVATELY OWNED AND PROFITABLE,
SELLING NEARLY A MILLION BARRELS
OF BEER A YEAR AND GENERATING
$225 MILLION A YEAR IN REVENUE.
>> FOR A LONG TIME WE FELT THAT
WE KIND OF STUMBLED INTO THIS
FOR VALUES-BASED REASONS BUT
THEN FOUND THAT ECONOMICALLY IT
WAS A REALLY POWERFUL BUSINESS
MODEL AND HAS BEEN A KEY
INGREDIENT OF OUR SUCCESS OVER
TIME.
>> Reporter: NEW BELGIUM TOOK
ITS DEDICATION UP A NOTCH IN
2013, WHEN IT BECAME A CERTIFIED
B CORP, SUBMITTING TO A RIGOROUS
AUDIT OF ITS COMMUNITY IMPACT BY
THE PENNSYLVANIA BASED B LAB.
B LAB LIKENS THE CERTIFICATION
TO "FAIR TRADE" FOR COFFEE AND
THE "LEED" CERTIFICATION FOR
BUILDINGS WITH ENVIRONMENTAL AND
ENERGY-EFFICIENT DESIGN.
BEYOND CHARITABLE GIVING,
COMPANIES CAN SCORE MORE POINTS
FOR MAKING ECO-FRIENDLY
PRODUCTS, OFFERING ROBUST
BENEFIT PACKAGES, AND BEING
TRANSPARENT IN THEIR CORPORATE
GOVERNANCE.
NEW BELGIUM EARNED ITS
CERTIFICATION IN LARGE PART
BECAUSE OF ITS ENVIRONMENTAL
PRACTICES: GENERATING 12% OF ITS
ELECTRICITY FROM SOLAR PANELS
AND BIOGAS, A FUEL THEY CREATE
BY THE WASTEWATER PRODUCED WHEN
THEY MAKE BEER.
AFTER ONE YEAR ON THE JOB,
EMPLOYEES ARE GIVEN BIKES TO
COMMUTE CARBON FREE AND GIVEN
SHARES IN THE COMPANY, WHICH IS
NOW EMPLOYEE OWNED.
>> B CORP HAS GIVEN US A WAY TO
MEASURE THINGS THAT AREN'T
INHERENTLY QUANTITATIVE, BUT WE
KNOW ARE IMPORTANT TO US.
LIKE PROVIDING 100% OF OUR
HEALTH CARE PREMIUMS FOR OUR CO-
WORKERS OR PUTTING SOLAR ON SITE
OR BIOGAS.
IT HELPS US TO BRING THAT INTO A
MEASUREMENT SPACE WHERE WE CAN
COMPARE OURSELVES AGAINST OTHER
COMPANIES AND SEE ARE WE REALLY
BEING LEADERS IN THIS AREA OR IS
THERE A WAY WE CAN IMPROVE?
>> Reporter: BELIEVING BUSINESS
CAN FUNCTION AS "A FORCE FOR
GOOD," B LAB HAS CERTIFIED
22,000 COMPANIES WORLDWIDE SINCE
2007.
SUBJECTING MOSTLY SMALL AND
MEDIUM-SIZED, PRIVATELY HELD
COMPANIES TO A 200 POINT
ASSESSMENT.
THE LIST INCLUDES ICE CREAM
MAKERS BEN & JERRY'S, EYEWEAR
MANUFACTURER WARBY PARKER, AND
OUTDOOR CLOTHING GIANT
PATAGONIA.
THERE ARE 99 B CORPS IN
COLORADO.
THAT INCLUDES BUSINESSES THAT
DON'T MANUFACTURE ANYTHING, LIKE
DENVER LAW FIRM MOYE WHITE.
ATTORNEY DOMINICK SEKICH OVERSAW
ITS B CORPS APPLICATION.
>> THERE ARE A LOT OF
OPPORTUNITIES THAT, SAY,
MANUFACTURERS HAVE THAT, AS A
SERVICE ORGANIZATION, WE DON'T
HAVE.
WE CAN'T REALLY POINT TO A
SUPPLY CHAIN THAT WE'VE
IMPROVED, BECAUSE OUR SUPPLY
CHAIN IS FAIRLY SHORT AND
CONCRETE.
>> Reporter: MOYE WHITE ACHIEVED
B CORP CERTIFICATION AFTER IT
IMPROVED A NUMBER OF EMPLOYEE
BENEFITS, EXPANDING PAID
PARENTAL AND FAMILY LEAVE,
INCREASING FLEX TIME, AND
STARTING AN EMPLOYEE COMMUNITY
SERVICE GROUP THAT VOLUNTEERS
WITH ORGANIZATIONS LIKE HABITAT
FOR HUMANITY.
SEKICH SAYS EACH TIME AN
EMPLOYEE TAKES ADVANTAGE OF
THEIR THREE-MONTH PAID FAMILY
LEAVE BENEFIT, IT CAN COST THE
FIRM BETWEEN $20,000 AND
$50,000, BUT THE FIRM BELIEVES
IT'S WORTH IT.
>> WE'VE HAD SOME CLIENTS
APPROACH US ASKING US HOW WE'VE
COMMITTED TO THE ENVIRONMENT,
HOW WE'VE COMMITTED TO OUR
COMMUNITIES, AND WE'RE ABLE TO
POINT TO OUR CERTIFICATION AS A
B CORPORATION AS PART OF THAT
EFFORT.
>> Reporter: WHEN MOYE WHITE WAS
WORKING TOWARD ITS B CORP
CERTIFICATION, IT TURNED TO B
LAB'S KIM COUPANOUS FOR
ASSISTANCE.
>> IF YOU LOOK AT SOCIETY IN
GENERAL AND ALL OF THE GOOD
THINGS THAT CAPITALISM HAS
BROUGHT TO CIVILIZATION AND
HUMANITY OVER THE LAST HUNDRED
PLUS YEARS, THERE'S BEEN AN
EQUAL NUMBER OF REALLY NEGATIVE
THINGS.
MASSIVE INCOME DIVIDES,
BIOTOXICITY, GREENHOUSE GASES,
YOU NAME YOUR KIND OF SOCIAL OR
ENVIRONMENTAL ILL.
CAPITALISM HAS KIND OF CREATED
THAT.
>> Reporter: BEFORE JOINING B
LAB, COUPANOUS RAN AN OUTDOOR
CLOTHING COMPANY FOR 16 YEARS.
>> I AGREE WITH THE PROFIT
MOTIVE AND THERE'S NO BONES
ABOUT THAT.
I ALSO KNOW THAT THE POWER OF
BUSINESS TO TRANSFORM SOCIETY IS
HUGE.
AND WE ARE GOING INTO THIS NEW
CENTURY FACING SOME PRETTY
CHALLENGING PROBLEMS THAT
HAVEN'T BEEN SOLVED BY THE
NONPROFIT SECTOR OR THE
GOVERNMENT SECTOR.
AND AT THE SAME TIME, THERE'S
THIS KIND OF SPIRIT OF
INNOVATION AND OPTIMISM,
ESPECIALLY AMONG MILLENNIALS WHO
SAY WE CAN DO BETTER THAN THIS.
>> Reporter: ECONOMICALLY,
COLORADO IS DOING BETTER THAN
MOST STATES.
ITS 2.3% UNEMPLOYMENT RATE IS
THE LOWEST IN THE COUNTRY.
THE DENVER SKYLINE IS FILLED
WITH CRANES CONSTRUCTING NEW
APARTMENT BUILDINGS FOR SOME OF
THE 60,000 PEOPLE WHO MOVE TO
THE STATE EVERY YEAR, MOST
SETTLING IN THE RELATIVELY
AFFLUENT GREATER DENVER AND
BOULDER AREAS.
WILL THIS BE RELEGATED TO AREAS
THAT ARE ALREADY POPULATED BY
THE UPPER MIDDLE CLASS, THE
EDUCATED, THE TECH SECTOR?
I CAN THINK OF MANY CORNERS OF
AMERICA THAT THEY JUST WANT
JOBS.
THEY'RE NOT EVEN HAVING THE
ABILITY TO THINK ABOUT HOW DOES
THIS SAVE WATER.
>> CERTAINLY IT REALLY CAN'T BE
RELEGATED TO THE REALM OF UPPER
MIDDLE CLASS PROGRESSIVE CITY,
BECAUSE IF WE ARE TRYING TO
CREATE SHARED AND, OR DURABLE
PROSPERITY FOR ALL IT MEANS
CITIES THAT ARE DEPRESSED.
IT MEANS, YOU KNOW, LOCAL
BUSINESSES, NAIL SALONS, AND
MOVING COMPANIES, AND THE LOCAL
GARAGE.
>> Reporter: THE B CORP MOVEMENT
IS NOT WITHOUT ITS SKEPTICS.
>> IT IS A BAND AID ON A
CANCEROUS PATIENT.
>> Reporter: BOSTON COLLEGE LAW
PROFESSOR KENT GREENFIELD
APPLAUDS THE INTENT OF B-CORPS,
BUT FEARS THE B CORPS MOVEMENT
MAY MASK THE NEED FOR FAR
GREATER CHANGES TO THE WAY
AMERICAN COMPANIES CONDUCT
THEMSELVES.
>> LET'S BE HONEST-- THE REAL
BAD ACTORS IN THE CORPORATE
WORLD ARE NOT THOSE WHO ARE
VOLUNTARILY OPTING IN.
>> Reporter: GREENFIELD ARGUES
THAT THERE MUST BE CHANGES IN
CORPORATE GOVERNANCE TO LEGALLY
SUPPORT COMPANIES WORKING TO BE
BETTER CITIZENS.
>> AS LONG AS IT'S VOLUNTARY,
THEN IT'S STILL GONNA LEAVE BAD
ACTORS ASIDE.
SO IF YOU'RE A WALL STREET HEDGE
FUND MANAGER, ARE YOU GOING TO
PREFER COMPANIES THAT ARE B
CORPS?
ARE YOU GONNA PREFER COMPANIES
WHO ARE SAYING, "NO, WE DON'T
THINK THAT BEING A B CORP IS
CONDUCIVE TO THE SHAREHOLDER
VALUE?"
SO I THINK OUR EFFORTS NEED TO
BE AIMED AT A MORE FUNDAMENTAL
ADJUSTMENT IN THE WAY WE THINK
ABOUT CORPORATE OBLIGATION AND
THE WAY WE GOVERN CORPORATIONS.
>> Reporter: DESPITE THE LACK OF
FEDERAL OR STATE REGULATION
COMPELLING COMPANIES TO FUNCTION
AS BETTER ACTORS, THERE IS A WAY
FOR COMPANIES WHO PURSUE BOTH
PROFIT AND SOCIAL GOOD TO BE
LEGALLY PROTECTED.
WITH A PUSH FROM B LAB, COLORADO
AND 32 OTHER STATES HAVE PASSED
LEGISLATION ALLOWING COMPANIES
TO INCORPORATE AS A PUBLIC
BENEFIT CORPORATION, WHICH
ENSHRINES THEIR SOCIAL MISSION
INTO THEIR ARTICLES OF
INCORPORATION.
THIS SPRING, FOOD AND BEVERAGE
COMPANY DANONEWAVE BECAME THE
LARGEST PUBLIC BENEFIT
CORPORATION IN THE U.S., WITH
6,000 EMPLOYEES AND $6 BILLION
IN ANNUAL REVENUE.
A SUBSIDIARY OF FRENCH
MULTINATIONAL DANONE, DANONEWAVE
MAKES ORGANIC PRODUCTS LIKE
HORIZON MILK, SILK ALMOND MILK,
AND WALLABY YOGURT.
>> WE ENCOURAGE DIETARY
PRACTICES THAT IMPROVE THE
HEALTH OF PEOPLE THROUGH FOOD.
>> Reporter: DEBORAH ESCHMEYER
IS THE VICE PRESIDENT OF
COMMUNICATIONS AND COMMUNITY
AFFAIRS.
>> WHEN FOLKS GO TO THE GROCERY
STORE, THEY WANT TO KNOW THAT
THE PRODUCTS ARE ACTUALLY DOING
RIGHT BY THE EMPLOYEES AND BY
THE PEOPLE AND THE PLANET.
>> Reporter: ITS PRODUCTION
PROCESS IS INCREASINGLY USING
NATURAL INGREDIENTS AND THE
COMPANY HAS SPENT MONEY TO
REDUCE ITS WASTE AND PROMOTE
ANIMAL WELFARE.
ESCHMEYER SAYS DANONEWAVE
BELIEVES THE UP FRONT COSTS PAY
OFF IN THE LONG RUN.
>> THESE ARE THINGS THAT HELP
THE BOTTOM LINE, BECAUSE WASTE
REDUCTION, FOR EXAMPLE, IS GREAT
FOR THE BOTTOM LINE.
IT'S ALSO GREAT FOR THE PLANET.
WE HAVE THIS GREATER GOAL OF
SHOWING THAT YOU CAN MEET THE
FINANCIAL SHAREHOLDERS'
INTERESTS AND DO RIGHT BY THE
PEOPLE AND THE PLANET.
>> Reporter: DANONEWAVE IS
ARGUABLY PROVIDING A TEST CASE
FOR SCALE.
>> YES.
>> Reporter: HOW DIFFICULT IS IT
TO GO THROUGH THIS PROCESS WITH
SUCH A LARGE COMPANY?
>> YEAH, I MEAN, WE'RE
DEFINITELY PROVING THE CASE.
WE WANT TO MAKE SURE THAT LARGE
COMPANIES CAN DO THIS, AND WE
CAN DO THIS AT SCALE.
AND DANONEWAVE IS NOW ONE OF
THE TOP 15 FOOD AND BEVERAGE
COMPANIES IN THE UNITED STATES.
AND SO WHEN WE DO THIS, IT'S A
CHALLENGE TO OTHER COMPANIES TO
STEP UP AS WELL.
>> Reporter: SIX MORE STATES ARE
NOW CONSIDERING BENEFIT
CORPORATION LEGISLATION.
B LAB SAYS IT WILL CERTIFY ITS
100th COLORADO COMPANY AS A B-
CORP NEXT WEEK.